[Music]
as William Arthur Ward said the
pessimist complains about the wind the
optimist
expects it to change the realist adjusts
the sails and that's how we all have to
be we need to look at the situation and
understand not what personality type are
we but what are we going to do about it
that any of us in any moment we always
get to choose how we react we get to
choose our frame of reference we get to
choose whether we're pessimistic we get
to see things in an optimistic way if we
want but at the end of the day the only
thing that really matters is what do you
choose to do and so if you decide to
fight the wind to be angry to argue
about it to complain you're never gonna
go anywhere other than where the wind
wants you to go but if you remember that
we have control that we can react that
we can choose to adjust the sails to
harness the wind to take us where we
want to go and instead of fighting
against it wasting energy we learn how
to harness everything around us and as
Alice Walker said the most common way
people give up their power is by
thinking they don't have any people lose
sight of the fact that we always get a
choice no matter what happens in your
life the one thing that you get to
choose at all times is the meaning that
you ascribe to it
get away no one but you gets to decide
how you react and your reaction is the
bricks by which you build the life that
you want it isn't your intentions it's
not your thoughts it's simply the things
you manifest into the world as you take
action the world reacts as you take
action you progress as you take action
you learn as you build you create things
and as you create things you can
construct a world that matches your
vision but it's understanding that you
have that power it's understanding that
you always get a choice and you lose
that power when you give that up you
lose that power when you take the
emotional security of complaining of
negativity of pessimism but if instead
you're not only optimistic but you're an
action-oriented real is to knows there's
always something to do to take advantage
of the situation and that's what I want
for you I want you to understand you can
always take advantage you can always ask
a question as powerful as how is this
worst thing that happened to me actually
the best thing that ever happened to me
and when you flip your mindset like that
nothing in the real world changes but
suddenly you see everything differently
and that thing that bad thing
you're stressing about that you were
crying over it becomes empowered becomes
something totally new and think about
the way that you can transform the past
simply by thinking about it in a new way
and wouldn't you do that then you're
going to be able to maintain your power
and even grow your power because it's
coming from understanding that if you
own your decisions and always respect
that you can act that you can choose to
harness any situation when you remember
that you're in control and when you're
in control
you can go wherever you want to go I
[Music]
want to dispel a myth for you it's the
talent myth it's the belief that some
people were just born with more than
others that some people are naturally
gifted in some aren't and that's just
the way the cookie crumbles and whatever
you're gonna be is essentially
determined by how you started that your
DNA is exactly your destiny I'm here to
tell you right now that's [__] it's
just not true it's not the truth of the
way that humans are designed as a
species were the ultimate adaptation
machine that the very thing that puts us
at the top of the pyramid is our ability
to adapt it is the fact that the brain
is plastic that it responds to change it
responds to stressors it responds to
repetition and repetition is a slave to
obsession as Conor McGregor said there's
no talent here this is hard work this is
an obsession you could be anyone if you
put in the time that's one of the
greatest athletes of our time telling
you that he's not the result of genetics
he's not the result of natural gifts he
hasn't been bestowed something by God he
has shown up day after day in the most
mundane of conditions on the cold days
on the hot days he put in the work
because he was obsessed with what he
could become and that repetition
that you need to actually gain a skill
follows that obsession so in you right
now right now today you want to start
building that obsession you want to look
at it like an ember that can become a
raging fire but it needs your time and
attention it needs your time and
attention you've got to take that
interest you've got to take that spark
of desire and you've got to fan the
flames you've got to turn it into that
obsession and from that obsession if you
put in the work if you do the things day
in and day out the back-breaking work
pushing through the pain
fighting through feeling like an idiot
fighting through embarrassment getting
up brushing yourself up doing it again
practicing putting yourself at
somebody's feet and asking what could I
have done better not look at the things
you're doing well but look at the things
you're doing wrong look at the things
you're doing poorly staring at your
inadequacies with no loss of pride
because the only thing you value in
yourself is your willingness to do that
your meaning is to work your ass off and
as Sylvester Stallone said I'm not the
richest smartest or most talented person
in the world but I succeed because I
keep going and going and going and
that's the secret there's nothing more
than that
the people that you see that win at the
highest level they were the ones that
didn't give up they're the survivors and
you've got to ask yourself am i a
survivor type am I the type of person
that continues to push through when it
gets hard when it gets boring when I
feel lost when I don't know what I'm
doing when I have no faith in myself
even in that darkest hour can I push
forward can I accept that the human body
will respond to that stress it will
respond to that stimulus but I have to
show up and I have to do the work and so
that's the beautiful thing you're not
gonna separate yourself based on your
genetics you're not gonna separate
yourself based on who your parents were
where you were born
you're gonna separate yourself by
showing up when you don't want to you're
gonna separate yourself by pushing
forward when it hurts
you're gonna separate yourself by always
moving forward even when the forward is
falling on your face so never lose sight
of that it's the person that keeps going
that can't be defeated
here's the hard truth about getting
great it takes time and dedication it
takes a willingness to accept that
you're not yet good enough it takes the
ability to stare at the places that you
know that you're weak to really look at
those things and not let it affect your
sense of self-esteem and not let it
affect your sense of self-worth so that
you can still get the momentum going but
you have to understand that in the
beginning we're all terrible and as
Henri cartier-bresson said your first
10,000 photographs are your worst and so
the thing that really makes great art
are the people that continue to push and
the people that continue to work and
face how inadequate they are and really
understand that at the end of the day
greatness is a craft greatness is a
process greatness is a habit greatness
is the little things that you do every
day
overtime going out every day unafraid of
whether or not this is one of the 10,000
terrible things that you're going to do
it's being unafraid to make those
mistakes as being unafraid that you're
not yet great and as Marianne rad maker
said courage doesn't always war
sometimes courage is the quiet voice at
the end of the day saying I will try
again tomorrow
and that's it if you want to be great
that's what you have to do you've got to
get up again tomorrow you've got to be
willing to face another day you've got
to be willing to accept that you've got
to get through the bad ideas before you
can get to the good you've got to
understand that you have to start as an
apprentice you have to start as a person
going and getting tea and you have to
accept that that's the job that you
should be playing that you should be
working for somebody else you should be
looking up to somebody else's seeing
what they can teach you because what you
know is that you're there
what you notice that you're there to get
through the 10,000 bad photographs that
you need to get through to ultimately
achieve greatness and if you make the
catastrophic error that's so many make
to try to tell the world that you're
extraordinary today to try to get the
world to follow you and look up to you
and think you're something today because
the people that living wins are the ones
that are best today the ones that listen
today the ones that spend every ounce of
their energy amassing mastery getting
better every day working their asses off
to improve their skill set to
relentlessly look at the things that
they're not doing well to understand
that they have to break themselves down
and get rid of all of their ego before
they can really find greatness those are
the people that we remember so if you
want to be remembered if you want to
achieve real greatness you just need to
have the courage to show up every day
and take another swing take another
photo try another task do something that
scares you and do those little things
over and over and over until you win
as Kurt Vonnegut one of the greatest
authors in modern time said when I write
I feel like an armless legless man with
a crayon in his mouth but he still did
it
and that's the kind of thing that you're
gonna hear from the greats you're not
gonna hear that it was easy you're not
gonna hear that they felt suave and cool
even the greatest of all time have that
awkwardness not clumsiness they're never
quite as good as they want to be but
what I want you to understand is even
though Kurt Vonnegut said those words he
wrote tons of books that changed
people's lives that changed the
landscape of literature because despite
the fact that he felt awkward and clumsy
he kept doing it and doing it and
forcing himself to move forward to take
one step after another even when the
process was not exactly rewarding
he believed in something he knew that
what he was trying to do would
ultimately get better he knew that if he
wanted to accomplish something great
that he had to push through the
awkwardness and that is the very trick
to getting great you just have to do it
you have to go you have to take that
first step you up to push you have to
drive you have to strive every time to
get a little bit better you have to
strive not to fall prey to your own
doubts and insecurities and as Joan Amos
said if you aren't going all the way why
go at all but it's doing that in face of
the fear it's doing that in face of the
difficulties it isn't only because
someone is great that they say you
should either do it all the way to play
hard or go home they're not saying it
because the process is in and of itself
rewarding they're saying it because
there is something that they're trying
to accomplish that demands it that
they're prepared to play on a world
stage and once you know why you're doing
what you're doing once something sits at
the core of
being and despite how difficult painful
awkward it may be to push forward you
push forward no matter what the odds and
as Hannibal said one of the greatest
military leaders of all time I wider
find a way or I'll make one and he said
that as he was getting elephants across
the Alps now when you think of the
difficulties that you face in trying to
do what you're trying to accomplish
think about that man amassing an army
and getting elephants to climb a
mountain and saying not this is
impossible but rather if there's not
already a way present I will make one
and when you can look at that when you
can look at your own inadequacies when
you can accept that you were not yet
good enough but you know then you'll put
in the work to get there you know that
you'll learn the things you need to
learn that you will push and you will
practice and you will shape yourself
into someone capable of doing it and you
have to literally carve your own path
out of these stone granite of a
mountainside you will do that because
that's what your goals demand and when
you're prepared to do what ever your
goals demand you will accomplish
whatever you set your mind to
Aznavour ravikant said the only way to
truly learn something is by doing it yes
listen to guidance but don't wait that
is such a powerful idea and I know right
now you're listening to this because you
want motivation you want to be inspired
but my greatest [__] fear is that
you'll get motivated you'll get inspired
and that'll just be a declining art for
a few minutes after you listen to this
video that ends with you doing nothing
and what I want what I really hope for
and the reason that I give myself over
to making these so completely is I know
some percentage of you on the other side
of this will ultimately be prepared to
take that first step you will realize
that the only thing that matters is
action and you will take that action and
it's in that action that your potential
greatness waits and as Martin Luther
King said take the first step in faith
you don't have to see the whole
staircase just take the first step
you've just got to believe that you can
learn you don't have to believe that
you're already capable of doing what you
want you don't have to believe that you
can already build that thing that you
dream you don't have to believe that you
already are extraordinary you simply
have to believe that if you take that
first step you put yourself on a journey
not of execution you put yourself on a
journey of learning so that you can
execute and that when you understand
that difference that's when you really
will be on that path to greatness and
that is the thing that I want for
everybody listening to this please
understand the only thing you need to
know is that you have to take the first
step whatever the vision is that you
have for your life you absolutely can
make it come true and the process is
very simple the process is about
learning the process is about growing
and getting better it's about
recognizing what you're not good at it's
about recognizing what you have to learn
it's about taking that first step on
faith
[Applause]
faith that you can get better not on
faith that you're great on faith that
you can become the greatest of all time
once you have that faith once you know
that simply being a human being puts you
in this rare category of creature that
can get better through pressure through
pain through difficulty through failure
those are the things that are going to
be the building blocks of your success
but in order to begin on that road in
order to have your first glorious
failure you must first take that first
step so please don't waste your time
being motivated or inspired spend every
second of your time moving forward
that's how you're gonna get where you
want to go as Maya Angelou said if you
don't like something change it if you
can't change it change your attitude
that's some of the best advice you're
ever going to hear at the end of the day
you should always be trying to change
the things that you have the ability to
change there are inevitably going to be
things that you can't change but you're
never helpless you're never a victim in
that moment you still have the
unbelievable ability to choose to look
at it in a new way to choose to reframe
it and in that reframing you change
everything you don't just change your
own neural chemistry you're not just
changing the way that you feel you're
actually changing the way that you're
going to approach the problem something
that was moments before something that
seemed impossible something that was
breaking your will to continue to fight
with a change in attitude become
something completely different and as
hans selye said adopting the right
attitude can turn a negative stress into
a positive one
and that game of mental jujitsu is what
it's about that game of flipping
something on its head of turning
something around of seeing it in a new
way so that you can act in a new way is
how you make forward progress and
understanding that understanding the
need to take control of your perceptions
understanding that understanding your
need to change your perspective that's
how you begin to get ahead once you
understand your perspective is a choice
it is not objective truth burn that into
your mind
it is not objective truth the world that
you see around you is simply the
perspective through which you see it all
of life is a funhouse mirror and when
you acknowledge that when you understand
that you're looking at a distorted view
of the way the world is you realize that
you can adopt a different Distortion you
can adopt a distortion that allows you
to see things more clearly that allow
you to see things in a way that empower
you and that should always be the first
step is figuring out not what is not
what you can change but instead
understanding what you need to change it
to an understanding that that change
comes from inside you it isn't a
manifestation that you have to make in
the outside world first it's a change
you have to make inside yourself it is a
shift of perspective it is simply
stepping to the side of what you're used
to and how you use the seeing things and
understanding that in reframing things
you take that negative and turn it into
something that builds you up but you've
got to choose you've got to decide
you've got to believe that you can do it
but once you believe that you can see
things in any way that you need to to
reach your goals your life will change
forever because you'll actually reach
your goals
[Music]
I wanted to spell a myth for you it's
the talent myth it's the belief that
some people were just born with more
than others that some people are
naturally gifted in some aren't and
that's just the way the cookie crumbles
and whatever you're gonna be is
essentially determined by how you
started that your DNA is exactly your
destiny I'm here to tell you right now
that's [__] it's just not true it's
not the truth of the way that humans are
designed as a species were the ultimate
adaptation machine but the very thing
that puts us at the top of the pyramid
is our ability to adapt it is the fact
that the brain is plastic that it
responds to change it responds to
stressors it responds to repetition and
repetition is a slave to obsession as
Conor McGregor said there's no talent
here this is hard work this is an
obsession you could be anyone if you put
in the time that's one of the greatest
athletes of our time telling you that
he's not the result of genetics he's not
the result of natural gifts he hasn't
been bestowed something by God he has
shown up day after day in the most
mundane of conditions on the cold days
on the hot days he put in the work
because he was obsessed with what he
could become and that repetition that
you need to actually gain a skill
follows that obsession so in you right
now right now today you want to start
building that obsession you want to look
at it like an ember that can become a
raging fire but it needs your time and
attention it needs your time and
attention you've got to take that
interest you've got to take that spark
of desire and you've got to fan the
flame
you've got to turn it into that
obsession and from that obsession if you
put in the work if you do the things day
in and day out the back-breaking work
pushing through the pain
fighting through feeling like an idiot
fighting through embarrassment getting
up brushing yourself off doing it again
practicing putting yourself at
somebody's feet and asking what could I
have done better not look at the things
you're doing well but look at the things
you're doing wrong look at the things
you're doing poorly staring at your
inadequacies with no loss of pride
because the only thing you value in
yourself is your willingness to do that
you're willing is to work your ass off
and as Sylvester Stallone said I'm not
the richest smartest or most talented
person in the world but I succeed
because I keep going and going and going
and that's the secret there's nothing
more than that
the people that you see that win at the
highest level they were the ones that
didn't give up
they're the survivors and you've got to
ask yourself am i a survivor type am I
the type of person that continues to
push through when it gets hard when it
gets boring when I feel lost when I
don't know what I'm doing when I have no
faith in myself even in that darkest
hour can I push forward can I accept
that the human body will respond to that
stress it will respond to that stimulus
but I have to show up and I have to do
the work and so that's the beautiful
thing you're not gonna separate yourself
based on your genetics you're not gonna
separate yourself based on who your
parents were where you were born
you're gonna separate yourself by
showing up and you don't want to you're
gonna separate yourself by pushing
forward when it hurts
you're gonna separate yourself by always
moving forward even when the forward is
falling on your face so never lose sight
of that it's the person that keeps going
that can't be defeated greatness is the
most demanding mistress you're ever
going to encounter and I understand the
advice that I'm about to give you is not
for everyone most people should turn
this off but if you're gonna stick with
me if you're going to listen to what I
have to say it's because you want
something tremendous in your life you
want to stand out from everyone else you
want to do something more than other
people think it's possible you literally
want to stand outside the norm and if
that's the case for you then understand
that as Albert Einstein said only one
who devotes himself to a cause with his
whole strength and soul can be a true
master for this reason
mastery demands all of a person if you
want to get great if you really want to
make a skill set your own if you want to
be able to do something and at the end
of the day
if you want to transform the world if
you want to make grande changes if you
want to do all of that [__] all the
empty words that people spout all the
time
let me tell you the only thing that's
going to separate you from all the other
blowhards we're just talking words and
we'll never do anything is to give
yourself over completely to let that
obsession let that thing that you love
completely consume you and in that your
only chance to really become great lies
as friends Kafka said don't bend don't
water down don't try to make it logical
rather follow your most intense
obsessions mercilessly can you do that
can you become mercilessly obsessed
can you let something occupy you to
where all logic and reason is gone out
the window and the only thing that
matters is whether or not you accomplish
will you hold yourself accountable to
metrics will you look at the world and
see am I actually making change are you
prepared to hold yourself to that
standard because if you are there is
nothing you can't [__] do if you're
willing to take that responsibility on
to transform yourself as a human being
if you give your self over to getting
great if you give yourself over to that
obsession if you feed it like you would
feed a beast if you feed it like you
would feed a fire that can wipe out an
entire mountainside then you've got a
chance but it's got to burn within you
like that you've got to feed it like
that you've got to feed its skills
you've got to get better every day
you've got to constantly wake up and
understand exactly what it is you're
building towards that and build towards
it with a relentlessness that other
people think is mania that other people
can see only madness in what you do
and if you can push yourself to that
level then the world will bend to your
will everyone takes the limits of their
own vision for the limits of the world
Arthur Chopin our there is all around
you right now the reflections of your
world belief they're so ever-present
that you don't even see them all the
assumption that you've made about the
world the things that are possible what
you're capable of who you are the very
definition of what it means to be alive
all of it is completely invisible and
you're mistaken
what you have for what could be and once
you break free of that once you
understand that right now you're a
moment in time and that you have latent
potential and that latent potential can
be expressed in the form of skills that
you can get good at things that you can
develop yourself in any direction that
brain plasticity alone is one of the
greatest weapons that you're not using
but you have to move beyond what you can
perceive today you have to begin to look
beyond that and see that which doesn't
yet exist and you have to remember that
many of the things that are holding you
down are rules that you don't even
realize are rules and as General Douglas
MacArthur said you're remembered for the
rules you break and right now you're
following rules that you don't even
realize exists and some of those rules
are simply what is okay to dream but I'm
here to tell you the power is in
recognizing that you can do it the power
is in having the arrogance of belief the
power is an understanding that you yes
you are going to be capable of something
simply because you are willing to
believe in yourself and that's the thing
it's a willingness to believe in
yourself no one's gonna give it to you
even the people that love you they're
not gonna give you that they are
incapable of giving it to you people
cannot see past their limitations and
they take them for truth people actually
believe the things that have stopped
them will forever not only stop them but
they will stop other people how can they
hope to give you anything but limitation
so if you know that if you know that
even the people that love you what
they're handing it was limitation with
the best of [__] intentions with all
the love in the world how are you going
to break out of that how are you
to break past those rules how are you
gonna fight the anxiety that inevitably
comes your way when you think about
going against the grain but my friends
until you can do that you can never get
beyond the [__] that limits you if
people said gravity is what it is we
never would have reached the skate
velocity and yet as a species we have
been able to hurl a [__] rocket into
space get it outside of gravity take us
to other planets that is real only
because somebody said I refuse to be
held down by the most obvious rule that
we have the one that everybody says is
beyond reproach and that is gravity
but even gravity will break under the
weight of a superior will so recognizes
Epictetus said if you want to improve be
content to be thought foolish and stupid
can you be content to be thought foolish
and stupid or do you allow yourself to
be caged to be hemmed in by what other
people think and look I get it I
understand the steam of contempt I
understand how much it sucks when
someone you respect doesn't respect you
but you cannot be anything more than
their captive if you think about what
they think about you if you let yourself
be defined by what other people perceive
of as you then you will forever be
limited by what they give you permission
to do and I don't know about you but
when I was a kid I said when I'm an
adult I will never [__] be told what
to do again I will never be held back by
somebody else I will define myself I
will figure out what I need to do and I
will do it and at the end of the day
that is it my goals drive my behavior I
am NOT held back by what other people
think about me no matter how [__]
intoxicating it is to be loved
you have to decide what you want more do
you want to be you or do you want to be
someone else's reflection of you
[Music]